Welcome to session 344,
Adding Rich Graphics and
Media to Web Content in Safari.
Everyone loves the rich media.
I'm Adele Peterson.
I'm an engineer on the
Safari and WebKit team.
So before we get started,
I just want to do a quick
survey of the crowd.
Okay, who here has ever created any
web content using the image tag?
All right, so we're all awake here.
That's good.
All right, for those images,
who here has ever used an image
editor like Photoshop to get just the
right visual effect for those images?
Okay, actually, still a lot of people.
Who here has ever used a plug-in to add
video or audio to their web content?
Wow, a lot.
Okay, great.
Well,
today we're going to be talking about
some new ways to integrate those
rich media and graphics into your
web content using some technologies
that are built right into Safari.
So a lot of the things I'm going
to talk about today are actually
already available in Safari 3.1,
which is out there in the wild.
Everyone's using it.
But a lot of the things I'm
going to talk about are new to
the Safari 4 developer preview.
And that was actually announced
this morning in the Safari and
WebKit overview session.
And it is available in your
Snow Leopard seats and on Leopard,
Tiger, and Windows.
So let's get started.
The three main topics that we're
going to talk about today are media,
graphics, and effects.
And let's just dig right
in and start with media.
So video and audio are becoming
more and more important on the web.
Sites like YouTube have become part
of our day-to-day internet culture.
I don't know about you,
but I don't know how I would be able
to live without Harry Potter puppet
pals as constant entertainment.
So this is becoming
more and more important.
But all of these sites listed right
here actually accomplish that video and
audio integration by using plug-ins.
And plug-ins are great.
They're really powerful.
It's like having a separate little
application as a box inside your page.
But it's not standard web technology.
Video and audio should be just
as easy to integrate into your
page as images and text are.
Just imagine for a second if you
required your users to download a plug-in
just to view an image on your site.
A lot of them might just
throw up their hands and say,
no, I'm not doing that.
I'll go find some other
content out there.
In the future,
we want to start making video and
audio first-class citizens on the web.
We want them to be just as easy
as that other content that's
built right into the browser.
The way we're going to do that
is by using the next evolutionary
step for HTML called HTML5.
HTML5 is the new specification
being developed by both the W3C,
which is the World Wide Web Consortium,
and the What Working Group together.
And Apple has actually been
participating with both these groups
in developing the specification.
Specifically,
we've been working on something
called HTML5 Media Elements.
And that is both the video
tag and the audio tag,
just as simple as adding
an image into your page.
So let me show a quick example of
how you might have achieved this
media integration in the past.
Here we have a video,
and in this example,
we use the embed tag to use
a plug-in to play the media.
And moving forward,
We want it to look like this.
Simple and clean and easy
to just put up there.
Get that content on the web.
So using the embed tag or an object tag,
if that's the past and the
video tag is the future,
many of you are probably wondering, well,
what about right now?
So there's actually a pretty
good solution for that.
In HTML, you can have content fallback.
So here's an example of how you
can use the video tag or the
audio tag right now in conjunction
with your existing solution.
So you can try out this new technology
and start seeing what it can do
while not completely abandoning
the code that works in other browsers
that don't have this new support.
So another type of fallback that you
might want to use is source fallback.
HTML5 specifies a way to
have these source elements,
which are actually children
elements of both video and audio.
And this is how you can specify
different types of media.
So in this example,
I've used media queries
for each source element,
which specify different
things about the screen size,
you know, for the device the media
is being played on.
And in the last example there,
there's a media rule for print.
So this is just one example about
the browser will see all these
different media resources and
choose the best one that fits.
There's also a way to
specify different codecs.
And actually in the
session tomorrow night,
preparing and delivering video
for iPhone Safari and Apple TV,
they'll give lots of great examples
of how to do this source fallback.
So definitely check it out.
So most of the things that I'm going
to talk about will apply to both the
video element and the audio element.
But I just wanted to make a quick
mention of some things that are
special about each of those.
For the video element,
there's a special attribute
called the poster attribute,
which allows you to specify the
URL of an image to show up while
the video is preparing to play.
So that's something handy
to keep in mind for video.
And for audio, well,
audio is kind of special because
it doesn't usually actually have
a visual presence in the page.
So most of the time,
you're going to want to use the audio
element by creating it from JavaScript,
you know, creating an audio, you know,
new audio.
And you'll have that audio element
to manipulate in all the ways I'm
going to talk about right now.
So just a few quick notes
about this individually.
But for the rest of the talk,
I'm going to talk about things that
apply to both of those elements.
So the HTML5 specification for media
elements supplies a lot of different
attributes and functionality that
gives you as a developer a lot of
fine-grained control over your media.
So we're going to go through
a few of those examples.
All right.
Here I have an example of
the controls attribute.
At the bottom,
you'll see a set of controls that
are actually pretty similar to what
you see in the QuickTime plugin,
and they'll appear and
disappear as necessary.
They have some of the default behavior
that you'll probably want just to get
your video up and going on your web page.
So it has play, pause, mute,
slider timeline, and seek buttons.
And you don't have to worry about
leaving room for it when you're
specifying the size of your media,
which is really great.
So this is the easiest way to just get
your content up and running on your page.
When I think of this example,
I think of a novice user for HTML who can
maybe put up a web page and have a few
image tags with pictures of their family.
Maybe they want to put a video
of their kid on their web page.
If they do this, it's just as simple as
anything else on the web.
So I see this as a great way
to just get people up and
running with video and audio.
And actually,
the controls attribute will give the
audio element a physical presence
on your page and have it just show
up with those default controls.
But the great thing about video is that
it's just another element on your page.
So it's going to integrate and work with
different styles and layers on your page,
just like any other element.
So you can do a lot more
than you can with just a box
for your media on the page.
So many of you may want to get creative
and create your own custom controls.
So we're going to go through
some examples of how you
create those custom controls,
which will sort of
illustrate the different--
The different ways that you can have
that fine-grained control when you're
programming with these elements.
So the first example would
be a play-pause button.
The code here is actually
pretty straightforward.
You have access to a paused attribute,
and you can call play and pause
directly on your video or audio.
You can also listen for
events in JavaScript,
like the ended event.
So maybe when one video ends,
you want to start another.
Maybe you want to wait until the video
is loaded enough that it's ready to
play before displaying a certain image.
Another example of a custom control
would be a special timeline.
Maybe you would actually have
a clock displaying it or,
like in the default controls,
a slider that you can scrub the media.
So you have access to the
current time and the duration,
the playback rate,
and also to many events
like progress and load.
And time update is a great one
because you get that event any
time the actual time changes.
So if you want to design a
counter control and every
time the seconds change,
display the seconds,
then you just listen for that time
update event and you've got it.
and the You can check to
see if the video is muted.
You can make it muted if you want.
And you have access to the current volume
that you can get and set and listen
for volume changes in the media itself.
and the last example here is that you can
control loop properties on your media.
So setting a loop start time
and end time and the number of
times you want something to loop.
So that's all pretty straightforward,
and I think now is a great
time for a demo to show you
some of these things in action.
So I'd like to invite my colleague
Stephanie Lewis up on stage to show
you a little bit of the power of video
as a first-class citizen on the web.
Hello.
Everybody hear me?
So my name is Stephanie Lewis,
and I'm going to show
you some cool video.
So you may have seen this earlier
in the Graphics Day of the Union.
It's a pretty prototype thought
together by our team over at Apple.com.
The entire page is made solely
of CSS and JavaScript and HTML,
no plugins at all.
And I guess,
given we have our pretty nanos,
they can now play video.
We want to highlight that.
And what's kind of cool about this
demo is you can move things forward,
move things backwards,
stop it so you can actually hear
me and not listen to the ad.
And it's all integrated
right into the page.
And then what's even more fun is nano's,
of course, come in multiple colors.
So you can have multiple videos going.
Because it's integrated
directly into the page,
you can have more than
one going at any time.
You can fade the video in and out.
Listen to exactly what
you want to listen to.
If you're curious about these
animations and transitions,
I recommend you stick
around for the rich UI talk.
And then I'm going to show you
how we put some of this together.
So going to Xcode.
Actually, not going to Xcode yet.
So I'm going to start off with
our basic-- we used to use
the ad and we'd have the nano,
and it's kind of boring and
we want to spice that up,
right?
So I'm going to edit video.
It's a one-line change,
as she showed you.
I've listed my source.
I'm going to throw controls in there.
Quick deploy.
Had to do it the night before.
If it loads, oops, sorry, wrong step.
Okay, so we've got the controls,
it plays it, I can brush through,
skip back, mute it.
But what we really want to do is
because Nano has these beautiful
controls already built in,
we'd rather use those.
So I'm going to show
you how we added that.
So down here at the bottom,
I've added three anchor classes.
Using CSS,
I was able to place the buttons
directly over the image of the nano.
And then I've called in some
simple JavaScript functions.
At the top, I'm doing a little bit of
initialization just so that
everything can work together.
But the important part here
are these new functions.
Play/Pause.
It just checks to see the video's
pause and it's going to play it.
And skipping backward and forward is
doing nothing more than adding to the
current time or subtracting from it.
And then I'm going to show you
again what that looks like.
So again,
I can skip forward and pause it.
And then one of the things that
I like about the Video Tag is that it
integrates so easily with JavaScript.
And so you can obviously
listen for events.
What I want to do is I want the Nano to
be able to play more than one video.
So I'm going to listen for the video
to end and then switch to a new video.
And so I'm going to show
you the code for that.
So again, I've added a listener in
my notification function.
It's going to listen
for the video to end,
and what it's doing is it's
going to call a few functions.
The first function it
calls is fade audio.
I want to fade it out
to fade the new one in.
The only thing that's really
new here is the video volume.
I'm adding and subtracting from that,
but I'm doing this by setting
an interval at a regular time
so that it slowly degrades.
And then, of course, when I'm done,
I want to clear the interval.
And then what that does is
then it calls start next movie.
All that does is it finds the
next movie that I want to use,
kind of loops through an array,
loads the source, loads it,
and then starts it playing.
And so now let me show you that.
Back to Safari.
And so, again,
I can skip all the way through
so we can get to the end.
And it'll finish up the video.
And then I'm going to start
playing something different.
So that's it for that demo.
So I'm going to give you back to Adele,
and she's going to tell you
about some pretty graphics.
I love that demo because it really
illustrates how the video fits in
with the rest of the page so well.
Actually,
there's a version of that demo as sample
code that's associated with the session,
so definitely check it out and
see how we made all that work.
There's actually also another
piece of sample code that shows the
content fallback technique using
the plug-in solution for browsers
that don't support audio and video.
Okay, graphics.
So the simplest meaning of
graphics would be the image tag,
like we talked about before.
We're gonna go beyond the
image tag and talk about some
more advanced technologies.
Specifically,
we're going to talk about the canvas
element and scalable vector graphics,
SVG.
So first, the canvas element.
The canvas element was first
introduced in Safari 2.
And the best way to describe it
is to call it a scriptable bitmap,
an element in your page that you
can draw into with JavaScript.
So when Safari 2 shipped,
it shipped along with OS X Tiger.
And Tiger was the first
OS that had Dashboard.
And Dashboard widgets actually are
great examples of how Canvas is useful.
The stocks widget has the dynamic
graph that is drawn with Canvas.
The hands of the World Clock widget.
And some of the other
animations are done with Canvas.
So after we shipped that in Safari 2,
other browser vendors thought, hey,
this is really cool.
We all want to use this.
So it is actually now included
in the HTML5 specification,
and it's also implemented
in Firefox and Opera.
So let's start with a
basic example of canvas.
So here I have the canvas element.
I've given it a width and a height.
So now we're ready to draw into it.
Here's a basic example of how that works.
You get a 2D context for your canvas
and then you call graphics functions
like fill rect here to draw into it.
Now, for those of you who are familiar
with graphics programming,
there's actually a lot you can do here.
But we're not going to
go into all that detail.
Actually, let me show you an advanced
example that uses some of these
other graphics techniques.
So, one of my colleagues, Oliver Hunt,
actually made this in
a short amount of time.
It's a particle generator and
it uses things just like fill
rect to get this motion effect.
So, it's kind of a pretty
little animation there.
So mostly I want to talk about
some new features we've added in
the Safari 4 developer preview.
Mostly they're all about setting and
getting image data from a canvas element.
For these functions that
I have listed up here,
there's really a few different steps.
And we're actually going to use an
example of image processing to illustrate
how these new functions are useful.
So we want to get image
data from a canvas.
We want to know how to
create that image data,
how to process it,
how to put image data back into a canvas,
and how to save it.
So let's start with get image data.
Well, first let's talk about
the image processing.
So we have Bentley the dog here.
I know, everyone's a sucker for puppies.
So we have Bentley the dog here,
and there's a really easy way to get
that image into a canvas element.
There's a drawImage method.
So using drawImage,
we have Bentley the dog
in our canvas element.
So now let's start with Get Image Data.
It's a pretty simple syntax.
And what you get out of that
is an image data object.
Image data has a width and a height,
and most importantly, a data member.
And that data member
is just a pixel array.
Let's say you want to create
your image data from scratch.
We have a create image data function.
In this example,
we're using it to create what is going
to be the output of our image processing.
So, actually, if I step back a slide,
in this example,
we have an image data object
input and that's going to be
Bentley the dog's image data.
and now we're creating output.
OK, so now let me show you an example
of some simple image processing.
This is actually how you would do
the invert effect for image data.
You can see here there are a few
different for loops that are going
to loop through the data structures.
And we take the input data, do some math,
and compute what we want
our output data to be.
And so for input and output,
which are image data objects,
we use the data member as an array
to manipulate that image data.
So we've done all this fancy math,
and now we want to see
what it looks like.
So we're going to put that image data,
the output image data,
back into our canvas element.
It's pretty simple.
Just use put image data.
And now this is what would show up
in your page in the canvas element.
Okay.
So now let's say you
want to save that image.
Use it on the client side, maybe without,
you know,
making a server round trip or maybe with.
So here are some ways to use this new
function to data URL to have more control
over what happens to that new image.
So in the first example here, well,
so to data URL has an optional parameter.
You can pass it a
MIME type or you can not.
I think the default is
actually image ping.
And what you'll get is
data colon as your URL.
You'll actually see this
in an upcoming demo.
But so there's three examples here.
The first one is setting
window.location to your data URL.
And this will just load as the main
document of your page the canvas.
And the second example,
we're setting the text
area's value to the data URL.
And that way you could upload it in a
form if you wanted to let the server
have some information about that.
And the third example is to
save it with local storage.
And actually,
this is just a little preview
of the offline data session that
you'll see later in the week.
So definitely check that out if
you're interested in learning
more about local storage.
There are a few safety measures to
keep in mind for getting image data.
If you draw into your canvas with
an image from another domain,
we're going to consider
that canvas context to be
unsafe for getting data out.
So, two-data URL and get image data
aren't going to work in that case.
And the same is true if you
draw from another unsafe canvas
into your current canvas.
So,
that's just something to keep in mind.
The last new feature I want to
tell you about is the new ability
to use Canvas as a CSS image.
Anywhere in CSS that you
currently use an image URL,
you can use a Canvas image.
In this example,
we've specified an identifier when
you get the 2D Canvas context,
and then you can use that
identifier later from CSS.
Here in this example, it's backgrounds,
but you can use it for borders and pretty
much anywhere else that you use an image.
So now is a great time for another demo
to show you some of the power of what
these new functions can do for you.
So, Stephanie.
Hello again.
So what I'm going to show you
is the new features we've added,
so specifically get image data,
implements data, and two data URL.
I've written up a quick
little image processing app.
As you can see,
we have our beautiful Safari icon.
And with the code that I've talked about,
I can easily add effects,
say like grayscale or something
a little more exciting,
use some displacement maps and ripples,
easily stack them together
so I can say do an inversion.
They make it kind of big.
And then when I'm ready, I can decide,
when I've decided on what
I'm going to look at,
I can easily pick what
kind of output I want.
In this case, I'm going to just take a
ping and export the file.
Up at the above,
you can see we have a dated image URL.
It specifies the MIME type and
then goes on for quite some time.
And then I can easily just
save the image to my downloads,
open up in preview,
do whatever I want with it.
Do you think they'll let me
replace the default icon?
And so now I'm going to show you
what I did to get to that code.
For HTML, all I have is a canvas.
I didn't have to add any
special processing there.
Most of the work is done in JavaScript.
At the beginning, I have a new image,
draw my compass image so
it's up there and pretty.
Get the canvas, get its context.
Clear any previous effects out
because who wants to have multiple
effects on top of each other?
Then I draw the image out,
get the pixel data,
this gives me the pixel array.
At which point I can do whatever
fancy math I want to do.
Go see Graphics 101 if you
want to know how I'm doing it.
And then I can just put
the image data back.
And then finally,
when I want to export the image,
most of this is dealing
with choosing the mind type,
but I'm just saying the window location.
So, what, three lines of code?
And so then before I finish,
I'll show you one more effect.
This one's my favorite.
Oops,
didn't quite work with both of them.
And then I'll give you back to Adele.
Thanks, Stephanie.
I love the glass boxes.
So that was a quick
run-through of Canvas.
Definitely check out these new methods
and see what you can do with them.
Scalable Vector Graphics, SVG.
SVG is an XML graphics language.
And it's kind of a bigger fish in
some ways than the canvas element.
A canvas element,
you have this element on the page and
you draw into it and what you've drawn
is just part of that one element.
But SVG is a whole XML document
that you can navigate using
normal DOM traversal methods.
And also, it's scalable.
That's one way it's
different from canvas.
So, when you have an image made in SVG,
you know, it can scale up in your page
and look beautiful at any size.
So here's a basic example
of an SVG document.
Now, this is what you would load as
the main document in your page.
SVG content can also be
mixed with HTML and-- well,
XHTML.
But a document like this could
be the source of an iframe.
With this basic example,
you have different elements
for all the graphical things
that show up in your page,
so you can get to them
later and manipulate them.
One of the new features in
Safari 3.1 was the ability to
reference SVG from HTML and CSS.
So here we have an example of it
as the source of an image tag and
also as a URL that can be used
anywhere an image can be used in CSS.
So these are really handy for reusing
your SVG artwork in beautiful,
awesome ways within your
normal HTML content.
Another way to use SVG from
HTML is to use SVG fonts.
Well, here's an example of how you would
draw a glyph for a font in SVG.
But that's not really the point.
The point is that once
you do have this awesome,
beautiful, scalable font in SVG,
it's really easy to use from HTML.
And here's an example of how we've
used font face and defined a font
family name that can be used later
that references that SVG font.
This is actually kind of part of
the new web fonts feature that will
be talked about a little bit more
in the Creating Rich User Interface
session coming up at 5 p.m.
That's sort of the same
technique with TrueType fonts.
There are a lot of benefits
to doing this with,
you know, referencing a font,
a custom font from HTML.
Usually, this type of font is not
going to be used in SVG.
So, this is really handy.
Another new feature in
Safari 3.1 is SVG text on a path.
So this is kind of cool.
You can define paths in SVG,
as you can see here with
some arcs and lines.
And then it's really easy to just tell
your text path to use the path that
you specified earlier in your document.
And another big feature in Safari for
developer preview is SVG animation.
Again,
here's a very simple example of how
I move that box across the screen.
I just have a rectangle and I use
that animate motion tag to tell it
where to move and how long to move to.
And there are a few different
things that you can tweak here.
We actually have support for
a bunch of different advanced
features for animation here.
And I actually want to show you a quick
example of something I came up with a
few days ago to illustrate some of this.
So here we have the funny bee.
I actually got the funny
bee from openclipart.org,
which has a bunch of SVG images
that are in the public domain.
I myself am not artistically talented,
so it's a good thing they
had this library out there.
Basically, what I did is I went in and
I found the different elements
that represented the bee's wings,
and I animated those.
And they also defined a path and
had the bee move around that path.
So here in the code example,
we have the animate motion tag,
and it just references this
path that I called Bee Motion.
So that's how the bee is
moving around the page.
Here's the example of how
I made the wings animate.
I used this animate transform
tag and told it to rotate,
at certain times,
a certain number of degrees.
Some of them go from 0
to negative 15 degrees,
back to 0, and some from 0 to 15 to 0.
And this actually uses an
additive animation because the
bee itself is already scaled
and transformed in other ways.
So this is just a short example
of some of the powerful things
you can do with SVG animation.
Some of the references that you
should probably check out if
you're interested in this is,
of course, the W3C site about SVG,
their animation spec,
and I'm a big fan of openclipart.org,
so I wanted to just tell you about that
as a quick way to get started with SVG.
That was an overview of some of the
more advanced graphic techniques.
Now we're going to talk about effects.
When I talk about effects,
I mean all the things that
you might do to your image
beforehand in an image editor.
So a few examples of those
types of effects that are now
included in CSS and have been,
some of them for a while,
are things like rounded
corners or drop shadows.
So these are all things that are
all over web UI and desktop UI.
And for some of them-- for example,
rounded corners.
Before border radius was added
to the CSS3 spec and browsers
started to implement that,
people had all kinds of
complicated techniques for
coming up with this effect.
Some of it used different images
stitched together in just the right way.
And I know for some
of box shadow effects,
people either had to pre-process the
image and add the shadow beforehand.
Or some people even wrote
complicated canvas libraries
to add the shadow on the fly,
which is great.
It just is a lot of code.
So some of the new CSS effects
that I want to show you will
take something like this,
which is an example of how you
used to do rounded corners,
to this, which is how we now do rounded
corners with border radius in WebKit.
So that's all great, but of course,
you're probably wondering again,
what about the other browsers that
don't support these new properties?
Well, the great thing about CSS is
that it does degrade gracefully.
If there's a CSS property that
a browser doesn't understand,
they just ignore it.
So you can either choose to
specify simpler properties
for those other browsers,
or you can just rely on the
fact that they'll not react
crazily to these new properties.
So going forward, just a quick note about
the dash-webkit CSS prefix.
This is a standard thing that
we do for things that aren't in,
properties that aren't
in a final specification.
So other browser vendors do this too,
and this allows us to prevent any
future conflicts as the spec is in flux.
You know,
so the dash-webkit border radius,
if it ends up being
different from border radius,
the final version,
there's no conflict with the
content that's already out there.
So that's just something to keep in mind.
So the first effect I want
to talk about is gradients.
These are all over the place.
We use them in webkit.org.
And this is actually achieved
on our website using images.
And if we wanted to have our
site be pink instead of green,
we'd have to use a different image.
We'd have to do that work beforehand.
So there's a lot of benefits
to doing that work on the fly.
Simpler code.
And why shouldn't it be as easy
as adding a background color?
You can now use CSS Gradients
for backgrounds and borders and
pretty much anywhere that you
would currently use an image.
and this is new in the
Safari 4 developer preview.
So here's a simple example of how
you would do a linear gradient.
We specify that is linear,
a beginning point using some keywords.
There are also some other
syntax that you can use,
an endpoint,
and a beginning point for your color
and an endpoint for your color.
Now, that looks pretty simple,
but you can imagine if it were
the background of a button that
it might look a little fancier.
Here's an example of a radial gradient.
Again, it's a pretty simple example,
but when it's used with the power of
CSS and applied in different places,
I think you'll find that
it can be really useful.
Okay.
The next example I want to
talk about is CSS masks.
Aw, Kate Hyatt.
So here we've used an SVG image
as our mask image and a picture
of Kate Hyatt as our main image.
And CSS masks allow us to do this effect.
I've actually seen, I mean,
let's take the example
of a photo gallery.
Let's say you want all the photos in your
photo library to have a certain shape.
And you don't want to have
to do it in Photoshop.
So this is an easy way to say, you know,
all images with the class, you know,
circle are going to get this effect.
And here's just a quick rundown
of the different versions of that
property for backgrounds and borders.
Okay, the last and I think the coolest
effect is CSS reflections.
Here I have a really simple example,
dash webkit dash box reflect below.
Just one word.
There are actually two other
parameters that you can pass,
but they're optional.
So you can tell it to reflect
below or above or left or right,
and you get this really
simple reflection.
This is another one that I've
actually seen a cool canvas library
that people have included to get
those reflections on the fly.
But again, it's a lot of code.
And this is also something
that's really common.
You see all over the place
in different kinds of UI.
So people do a lot of preprocessing for
this type of thing to get that effect.
And here's a slightly more advanced
example where I've actually
used as a mask image a gradient.
So now we're kind of tying
things together here.
And this to me is a
really cool thing to do.
So I'm going to go ahead and
show you a little bit of a
preview of what I've done.
So this to me looks like
something I would see,
you know,
on a professional desktop application.
So I wouldn't be surprised if
this were all over the place
in a short amount of time.
So we talked about effects
and graphics and media.
And when you put them all together,
you get something pretty special.
Safari ties that all up
for you and gives you,
I think, a pretty powerful set of
tools to create this rich,
beautiful content.
So now I'm going to do
a quick demo for you,
showing you how to put it all together.
I have to be on my
tiptoes to see everyone.
OK, so actually,
let's go back to the nano example that
Stephanie showed you at the beginning.
Let's pause it just for a sec.
All right,
so here we have two iPods side by side.
And the one on the right has
a little reflection built in.
And actually, that's something that was
added to the image beforehand.
Somebody probably spent a little
bit of time doing that effect
on each image for each nano.
So let's use the new
CSS reflections to add that same
reflection on the other nano.
. Let me show you some
CSS that I've written.
I've cut two different
reflection classes.
The only difference between these is
where the color stop begins and ends.
Let's try this out.
So here I've got a div that
actually contains all the different,
you know, nano images.
And I'm just going to go ahead
and add this reflect class.
Save it.
And here we go.
So now,
hopefully you can see it from there,
but the nano on the left
also has a reflection.
But this reflection is live.
So you can actually
see that when I pause,
that highlight is live.
Oh, it just gets better.
All right.
So OK, we'll come back to that.
OK,
so now let's try that other reflection.
I think it'll show a
little more of the nano.
I think you'll see there that the
video is reflected live as well.
You know,
I think an even better way to illustrate
how this all fits in would be to
give you a little preview of the
new CSS transitions and transforms.
So we actually built in
some of those to this demo.
I'm going to hit this menu button.
I'll just give you a little show.
And as it tilts,
you'll see the video is reflected.
And it starts up again.
And it's just part of the page.
The CSS reflection is working
with all those elements.
And it's just another
element on your page.
Let's have it rejoin its friends here.
So now you can see all
five videos are playing.
And they're all reflected live.
And as each nano moves around,
the video follows it.
It all just fits together beautifully.
Next slide.
So that just gave you a taste of
how putting all these different
techniques together can give
you something pretty awesome.
Those are the kinds of things that
you can do with web technology
before all this new stuff.
I mean,
you probably have to use a plug-in.
So this is all built right into Safari.
It's using the technologies
you know and love.
And I just think it's pretty cool.
I hope you will, too.
So definitely check out the
Safari 4 developer preview.
And I can't wait to see
what you guys come up with.
For more information,
you can contact Vicki Murley,
the Safari Technologies Evangelist.
And I have a few links up
here to the WebKit open source
project and a few specifications
that might be useful to you.
I'll just give you a second
if you need to make any notes.
We can also come back to this.
and some related sessions
right after this at 5:00 p.m.
in North Beach.
Definitely check out
Creating Rich User Interfaces
for Web Content in Safari.
They're going to talk about web fonts
and CSS transitions and transforms.
It's going to be pretty -- it's actually
kind of related to this session,
so definitely check it out.
And also the Preparing and
Delivering Video for iPhone,
Safari and Apple TV session,
especially if you're interested in,
you know,
what kind of encoding you want to apply.
And we have two labs,
the Rich Graphics and Safari Lab tomorrow
at 5:00 and the Safari Compatibility
Lab on Thursday night.